I just attended what was for me a really
positive and inspirational lecture by
this guy right here Kelvin new film
dealing with trans activism veganism and
some related and unrelated questions for
me the most interesting thing to really
look at are the nature and objectives of
the trans movement what finally is the
objective this is moving towards in our
society and that is by no means a simple
settled question that all trans
activists would agree on yeah I think
it's fair right what finally is the
objective for the society of looking
divorce so I really used this very
evocative image during your lecture of a
stack of turtles and where the turtle at
the bottom is that fundamentally
objecting to the hierarchy and the
question I put to you is well how
radical is the final end state trans
activism or how different is it from the
world we live in today given that we do
have a few positive examples of
societies on earth where you know I do
think at least transgender people are
accepted it may not be paradise may not
be absolutely perfect but how different
is the end goal trans activists are
working boards in a country like Canada
compared to countries like Thailand Laos
Cambodia that seemed to me several steps
ahead how radical is it to normalize
human diversity to me that's not radical
at all it's just radical because it's
not necessarily the norm people who are
different or often sort of kept out of
the public eye or or seen as being less
than others and I think we're past that
point of seeing people with differences
as being inferior or not the same we are
all the same so I really see one of the
many goals of trans activism being to
just equalize all of us humans and
human animals and just recognize the
value of life in all of its forms and
all of its expressions so one of the
subtle aspects of your lecture is in the
lecture itself and also in Q&A was that
you see it as quite positive to regard
transgender people as a third gender
rather than absolutely being the gender
they identify with today so I just say
this is it
I myself have talked to transgender
people at different points on I guess
the political spectrum it seems to me
that's not a simpler settle point so
where this conversation is happening in
Canada by the way where there is and you
mentioned it there is a special kind of
influence of the First Nations tradition
here the idea of a third gender that be
positive I really liked him related
deposit he said during the lecture
transgender people have a unique kind of
privilege and positive contribution or
culture may because they're in the
position of having grown up female and
then at some point switch to living as a
male or having grown up male and that
that's a perspective that has some value
I relate to that really positively I
think okay great you know that that's
something where you know within the
diversity of society even if you regard
it as eccentric which may well be I'm
vegan I'm in many ways an eccentric you
know I mean it's something that okay we
talk about normalizing it but it's also
something special it's something
extraordinary it's it's a perspective
that contribute contribute positively
with all its eccentricities
you know rolled up in it I do you feel
or you know do other trans activists
sometimes confront you or disagree with
you where they say no there isn't a
third gender like there's only two
genders and they're there they're just
born the wrong generative is that is
that a conflict in the movement i I
wouldn't say that all trans people
belong to this third gender category I
wouldn't say that some cuz as some
cultures recognize a distinct third
gender and it's been part of a long
centuries and/or millennia long
tradition just recognizing the diversity
but gender is a spectrum so there are
plenty of trans people who are let's say
all the way on one end of a gender
spectrum or all the way on the other end
of the gender spectrum same with non
trans people you can be hyper hyper
hyper male or hyper hyper hyper female
or you could be anywhere in between and
so for me for example on that spectrum I
would place myself on the Mae
side of middle I'm not on one extreme or
on another extreme and how trans people
identify there's absolutely no Universal
way to describe it there are as many
ways of being trans as there are trans
people but it's lovely to see how
different societies and cultures have
recognized the kind of diversity that
occurs within every human population and
just exploring that and not being
threatened by by terminology so much
people are very very sensitive about
labels and terms and I just see it all
as many different ways of describing
human experience another kind of subtle
question that was on my mind was this -
the lecture is the kind of tension
between normalization and radicalization
so the lecture dealt with veganism
animal rights and so on also actually
prison politics as well as I mean oh
it's a weird contrary situation where I
kind of agree with both you know on the
one hand okay yes you want to normalize
the position of transgender people in
society but there's also a call here to
radicalize the role of transgender
people in transforming society yeah I
know everyone just comment on that it's
kind of simultaneous impulse to say that
it's completely normal it's completely
not extraordinary and also hey this is
an extraordinary opportunity to
transform society and challenge so that
yeah you know one of the things one of
the things I absolutely love about being
trans is that a minute somebody knows
that you're trans they don't know what
to think about anything anymore right
Mizzou off and so all of your
assumptions we are constantly imposing
assumptions on everybody we meet so the
minute somebody has that blank I don't
know what to think right now that's when
a real conversation can begin and that's
that radical approach that we can take
to everything you know we've talked
somebody after my talk today he's a
cisgender non trans tall good-looking
white man
and he says it's hard for me to talk
about some of these things and the
interconnectedness of oppression for
example because people say oh you're
just a privileged white man what do you
know and I said but somebody like me I
can say it because nobody knows what to
think about anything and I can say
there's femininity in me without
thinking that that makes me less of a
guy or we can compare human and animal
suffering without humans getting all
defensive saying what you're comparing
me to an animal that's inferior to me
it's hard for a cisgender privileged
white man to make those comparisons
right but someone like me I'm free
because nobody knows what to think about
anything anymore
and I just love being in that position
where I can just turn things up upside
down and and have people just listen
with an open mind and an open heart so
I'm gonna tell a really brief anecdote
that I think for me illustrates all the
points from the lecture and the
questions I'm asking now cuz I mean
these are just broad questions about the
final destination for transgender
activism when I was living in Thailand
and Laos so it's back and forth cross
the border so is living in both places I
was out doing research I was out doing
humanitarian work I wasn't living there
as a tourist but you know I encountered
a group of high school students who were
out in a camping trip and one of them
was transgender and the other high
school students treated hearse is a male
to female transgender person completely
normally like it was absolutely no
awkwardness or stiffness like not even
if you can cast your mind back I'm 40
years old I can remember a time when in
a lot of situations like oh there's a
black person coming to dinner it's it's
just a little bit of special decorum or
something we will stiffen up a little
bit or a little bit more there was
absolutely none of that you know like
one of the one of the cysts hetero
teenagers was tuning his guitar and the
transgender teenage care was like no no
no you're doing it wrong everything
about this scenario where you know you
could see they they don't care it
actually doesn't matter this is so in a
positive sense this is a different this
is indifference it's an indifference of
inclusion not an indifference of
oppression or excellence you know before
when I was female bodied when I looked
like a girl that people treated me like
a girl
all nothing made sense nothing made
sense to me right and honestly even if
people were uncomfortable with with
being lesbian gay bi or trans and stuff
like that
I didn't really make sense to them
either so even people who were have had
a hard time accepting me as trans when I
came out once that initial confusion and
shock wore off all of a sudden they
realized actually a lot of things make
sense now our gender is not our body our
gender is in our mind so they say you
know genders in between your ears and
your sex is between your legs so there's
a difference between your sex and your
gender so your biological sex versus
your your sense of your own self as male
or female and you know what makes
somebody male or female is is a whole
complex set of factors and a lot of the
time when somebody finally comes out as
trans says this is who I am and if
you're willing to do not have a
fear-based response to them you're gonna
realize it all makes sense
mm-hmm I am a guy just like that person
journalist teenagers was a girl you know
regardless of what sex they were
assigned at birth right so as long as
we're open to that and not have a fear
base to phobic response to people right
we realize that this is their truth and
it just makes sense and you know you're
hanging out with a guy right now just
like those people were hanging out with
a girl and I'm terrified look you know
so some people all right I I have maybe
2,000 regular viewers I would say five
of them are trans people to my knowledge
maybe a lot of you are you haven't and
then it's big but both about five people
and the last time I talked about
transgender politics I would say one out
of five really reacted negatively maybe
three or four wrote to me positively
said they see where I was coming from
and you know some people react to what I
what I just raised about indifference
they actually regard that as transphobic
you know what I mean now okay
interesting point
it's who currently in Thailand there are
some transgender politicians they run in
elections the last elections there were
several that we're talked about um they
probably have a slight disadvantage in
elections there's probably just a
question of like okay well you know what
was your career what did you really do
with you life there's maybe a little bit
more scrutiny but they're not at us if
they're not disqualified or they're not
regard
as a laughingstock in that society and
by contrast I'd say by the way you know
in Italy it's very very hard there have
been some transgender politicians but
you know it's really kind of a freak
show for the press reacts in a very
different way but you know I don't see
the end goal of transgender activism as
being heterosexual society being ruled
by people is something I totally see
great you know okay however many you
know I totally could have a transgender
a prime minister or as it happens but I
don't think they'd be elected for that
reason and so on so yeah you know I'm
sorry that's really all I have to say on
the topic but it's deficit I can
understand it's difficult to see a word
like indifference as a as a positive
value but if you look over the border
from Thailand to Malaysia or Thailand
Indonesia to Muslim majority countries
look wow what an amazing accomplishment
it would be if transgender people or
homosexual people could could be
regarded with indifference it'd be an
unbelievable step forward absolutely and
I think we're well on our way no I think
indifference is wonderful wonderful I
keep telling people it's no big whoop
right and it's a naturally occurring
morally benign phenomenon and it just
has always existed and we're just coming
to recognize it more today because we
live in a world where it's uh we can you
know express our truths a bit more and
we're heading in the right direction but
it's simply no big whoop and honestly
like i i've been FLETC up geez
12 years ago I transitioned so 12 years
ago at first it was big it was huge
most people didn't had never met a trans
person in their life or at least four
they didn't know that exactly exactly
and so that was kind of like part of me
was like oh that's kind of neat because
it's neat to see people surprised and
that kind of reaction sometimes not
always in a good way but at the same
time the novelty of it was kind of
interesting to observe today right it's
nothing and it's always like man and
this is nothing now this is within one
lifetime yeah everything has changed and
you you tell someone you're trans now
and
okay but yeah and that is progress
because it never was anything big it's
never was anything shocking so I think
to end this interview that I'm gonna ask
you to contrast that to veganism I mean
they're totally different in so many
ways don't get me wrong but you know
obviously discussed also the ways in
which for him these are intersection
intersecting and overlapping you know
interests interests or movements would I
be one things that occurred to me while
I listen to your lecture is you know
what nobody really enjoys opressing
trans people and this is to extend that
also the gays and bisexuals and lesbians
most people don't really enjoy being
homophobic or hating or oppressing and
one of the stark contrasts is people
really enjoy eating meat or eating
cheese or dairy products or eggs so I
mean now look some people are so warped
with religion Christianity Judaism and
Islam primarily that they are highly
motivated to be transphobic or
homophobic so I there's some kind but to
me I mean that really seemed a very
strange thing where the pleasure the
pleasure principle if you want is really
fundamentally against veganism this huge
obstacle whereas I think it's I would
think it's not with with transphobia or
with with you know take that any from
the trans angle you know when I came out
you know I come from a conservative
Christian family and but very loving
compassionate intelligent parents and at
first they didn't know what to think of
it they didn't know how to fit it into
all of everything they never believed
and their belief structures and to today
my mother you know in her they were
never anything but loving and supportive
but they couldn't be as celebratory of
who I was as they would have liked to
have been and today you know she
experiences a certain degree of grief
over that and she thinks if only if only
if only I had known and you know what
she also wrote the book suffering eyes a
chronicle of awakening about her
awakening to the suffering of animals
and the response to that is if only I
had known sooner I spent forty nine
years
my life not understanding learn how I
was contributing to such enormous
suffering in this world people who have
had their eyes open to the suffering of
animals and people who have I had their
eyes opened to the diverse human
diversity and the suffering of our
fellow humans would never go back right
so anybody who thinks no this is what I
like this I'm just gonna stick as a
meter and I'm gonna stick as a
transphobic or a homophobic person and
they think that that is their comfort
zone they have no idea what they're
missing and they have no idea how
they're going to regret that once they
open their eyes and their hearts and how
they would never go back to that
position that they thought they would
never leave okay oh well thank you I
mean look you guys know I'm cynical as
hell this is one of the only people I've
met who has a degree in philosophy
that's putting it to good use it was a
genuinely uplifting and genuinely
inspirational lecture unfortunately
makes me want to go back into prison
activism I was yeah I mean here's the
sense in which I'm jealous
I think trans rights transsexual
activism I think it's gonna achieve all
its goals within 50 years except Saudi
Arabia except a few places like that and
you know veganism I think it's gonna be
500 years okay thank you very much for
appearing on the show
Calvin Newman I'll give links to his
book so Colleen ooh felt gonna provide
links to his book and his related
websites in the description this is a
brief follow-up recorded right after the
interview a few meters away with a
slightly different view of the park in
the background very often right when you
hit the stop button on a discussion like
that you have a little bit more chitchat
back and forth that clarifies and would
clarify for the audience what the
purpose the conversation was all about
so what you guys didn't hear is that
before that conversation he used this
very evocative image that I challenged
him on he repeatedly said in his lecture
he talked about a hierarchy and
oppression in society as being like a
stack of Turtles and then the turtle at
the bottom manages to bring the whole
stack down and then all the turtles are
equal hung lying in a pond together and
the reason why I challenged him with
these examples of Cambodia Laos and
Thailand was that it seems to me
very fundamentally that the objectives
of trans activism and you could also say
gay rights activism you could include
them in one category or both movements
they are not in this sense radical
revolutionary anti hierarchical they're
not anarchist I was asking him to
consider well in a country like Thailand
or even a country like Cambodia you
still literally have a king along with
all the other elements of hierarchy so
isn't it isn't it rather the case that
the objectives of Trance of the trans
movement trans rights movement wouldn't
you say that these objectives really can
be accomplished without this fundamental
challenge to hierarchy in society then
he gave a very interesting answer
during the lecture and then we continue
this conversation afterwards recorded
and shared it with you guys what I said
just now when I hit the stop button was
look you know in a country like Canada
it's very easy for me to imagine that
the trans movement will have
accomplished all of its goals within 50
years and then at that point it can
start to become invisible you know and
he agreed with me he said yeah it's
fairies he was talking to me about just
how much progress has happened in the
last ten years and he really feels that
the goals of that movement are finite
and attainable within the society we
already have again it doesn't require
tearing down this society we're
currently living in not in Canada now
there was an interesting footnote where
I said well obviously in Saudi Arabia
very different situation in Saudi Arabia
how much really will change within 50
years and how much will change within
200 years it's really worth talking
about as a separate topic I said my my
profound apprehension about this issue
is as follows I currently live in a
small town in Taiwan where there are
many many vegan restaurants within a
short walk of me I think there about 50
vegan restaurants in the city as a whole
and it's not enough for me
that when I walk out my door there are
four different vegan restaurants within
a city block let's say okay that there
were four vegan restaurants I could walk
past on my way to the grocery store
depending I'd have to take a bit of a
zigzag route on a slate across all four
but there were several vegan restaurants
right around my home
and then probably about 30 in the
downtown core area 50 in the city's old
it's not enough on a fundamental level
my problem is that when I walk past one
of those vegan restaurants right next to
it there's a meat market which is
hanging the corpses of chickens with
their skulls crushed in they crushed the
skulls there with like a metal peg it
looks like caved in skulls there are you
know dismembered corpses of pigs hanging
that often the pigs face the pig skull
the pigs the whole leg is hanging there
with gay-rights it's enough if there
were just a couple of gay clubs gay
nightclubs in the whole city the gay
rights is not trying to close down
heterosexual nightclubs you see it will
never be enough for veganism to merely
open a few more vegan restaurants the
objective of our form of activism
ultimately is to close down the
slaughterhouses is to close down the
restaurants and the markets that are
serving meat so you know it's a huge
problem that in many religious societies
transgender people can't open a single
nightclub if they try to open a
nightclub it has to be underground or
covert and it's you know harassed by the
police what have you and people if they
go to that nightclub then their boss at
work finds out and they're fired for
just going to this net that kind of
thing is common it was much more common
50 years ago but in religious and
conservative societies this is this is
still an issue to this day so the goals
of the transgender movement they might
be satisfied if in the whole city there
were one or two or five transgender
nightclubs they just want to be
tolerated and not oppressed for this to
be normal etcetera etc these are easily
attainable within 50 years at least in
secular democratic societies but the
goals of veganism are fundamentally much
more uncompromising and the type of
accepting indifference that I talked
about repeatedly during that interview
where I say okay transgender people can
be people can be indifferent to
transgender people and that acceptance
itself is a victory
that could be a positive conclusion to
the transgender movement whereas it
would mean total defeat and dissolution
for the vegan movement
what veganism is trying to accomplish we
can't get there
just through other people being
indifferent to us or tolerating us or
being accepting of us in the way that
already the society is accepting of
people who are lactose intolerant people
who have food allergies or people who
have religious based diets who put
themselves in a minority that all those
people are tolerated I mean the purpose
of the kosher diet within Judaism is not
to transform all society into being
kosher and the purpose of veganism sorry
let's face it the purpose of the
transgender movement is not it's
definitely not to try transform everyone
into being transgender but the purpose
of veganism the end goal veganism is
working the wards it's very profoundly
and fundamentally different because we
won't be satisfied until the
slaughterhouses are closed down
[Music]